# How can a key be public?

When you use the Caesar Cipher, it is crucial that the key remains secret. A public key cryptographic system consists of a **public key** and a matched but non-identical pair of **private keys**. The private keys are known only to one participant. The public key is created using the matched pair of private keys, and can be known by anyone.

So how does adding a public key __improve__ security? If anyone can find out the public key, does this mean they can break the encryption?

Here's how it works:

- Alice and Bob agree to use a public key cryptographic system.
- Bob sends Alice his public key AB which he has generated by multiplying together two primes A and B
- Alice receives the public key AB, encrypts her message with this key and sends it to Bob.
- Bob receives Alice's encrypted message. He has both the public key AB and his private key so he can decrypt the message from Alice.

### Test your understanding

**Why is this an asymmetric encryption algorithm?**


--- collapse ----
---
title: Answer
---

The key used to perform the encryption is not the same as the private key held by the person decrypting the information. It is hard to deduce the private key from the public key.

--- /collapse ---

**Why is the public key even needed?**


--- collapse ----
---
title: Answer
---
Anyone can send Bob a message using his public key. Bob reads the message using his private key, which is the only way of decrypting the message, meaning that only the intended recipient can read the message.

--- /collapse ---
